SECURITY_CLEANUP.md, before:

# 🚨 URGENT SECURITY ACTIONS REQUIRED

## ✅ Completed Actions

1. **Removed from Git Tracking:**
   - `cloudinary-credentials.txt` - Contained Cloudinary API credentials
   - `mongodb_commands.txt` - Contained MongoDB connection strings
   - Updated `.gitignore` to prevent future commits

2. **Updated `.env` files:**
   - `frontend/.env` - Updated backend URL to correct AWS endpoint
   - `backend/.env.deploy` - NOT tracked by git (safe)

## ⚠️ CRITICAL: Actions You Must Take Immediately

### 1. Regenerate All API Keys

These credentials are **EXPOSED** in git history and must be regenerated:

#### Gemini API Key
- **Current Key:** `AIzaSyAhhDf-WGTXRALXNfcCGhsoap7SfuyiDW8`
- **Action:** Go to [Google AI Studio](https://aistudio.google.com/apikey)
  1. Delete the `portfolio-key`
  2. Create a new API key
  3. Update GitHub Secret: `GEMINI_API_KEY`
  4. Update `backend/.env` on EC2 server

#### Cloudinary Credentials
- **Cloud Name:** `dtzaicj6s`
- **API Key:** `322679155254594`
- **API Secret:** `vPdyGUmklsd6iXaj9UToZBXnM4s` ⚠️ EXPOSED
- **Action:** Go to [Cloudinary Console](https://console.cloudinary.com/)
  1. Navigate to Settings → Security
  2. Regenerate API Secret
  3. Update GitHub Secrets: `CLOUDINARY_API_KEY`, `CLOUDINARY_API_SECRET`
  4. Update `backend/.env` on EC2 server

#### MongoDB Connection String
- **Action:** If your MongoDB Atlas connection string was in `mongodb_commands.txt`:
  1. Go to [MongoDB Atlas](https://cloud.mongodb.com/)
  2. Database Access → Reset password for `allualthaf42_db_user`
  3. Update GitHub Secret: `MONGO_URL`
  4. Update `backend/.env` on EC2 server

### 2. Remove Files from Git History (Optional but Recommended)

**Warning:** This will rewrite git history and require force push!

```bash
# Option 1: Using git filter-branch (built-in but slower)
cd c:/portfolio/portfolio
export FILTER_BRANCH_SQUELCH_WARNING=1
git filter-branch --force --index-filter \
  "git rm --cached --ignore-unmatch cloudinary-credentials.txt mongodb_commands.txt" \
  --prune-empty --tag-name-filter cat -- --all

# Force push to overwrite remote history
git push origin --force --all

# Option 2: Using BFG Repo-Cleaner (faster, recommended)
# Download BFG from: https://rtyley.github.io/bfg-repo-cleaner/
java -jar bfg.jar --delete-files cloudinary-credentials.txt
java -jar bfg.jar --delete-files mongodb_commands.txt
git reflog expire --expire=now --all
git gc --prune=now --aggressive
git push origin --force --all
```

### 3. Update Environment Variables on EC2

```bash
ssh -i "PORTFOLIO.pem" ec2-user@13.233.54.210

# Update .env file with new credentials
cd /home/ec2-user/portfolio/backend
nano .env

# Update these lines with NEW credentials:
# GEMINI_API_KEY=<new_key>
# CLOUDINARY_API_SECRET=<new_secret>
# MONGO_URL=<new_connection_string>

# Restart container
sudo docker stop portfolio-backend
sudo docker rm portfolio-backend
sudo docker run -d --name portfolio-backend \
  --restart unless-stopped \
  -p 8000:8000 \
  --env-file .env \
  portfolio-backend
```

### 4. Update GitHub Secrets

Go to: https://github.com/ALTHAFHUSSAINSYED/portfolio/settings/secrets/actions

Update these secrets with NEW values:
- `GEMINI_API_KEY`
- `CLOUDINARY_API_KEY`
- `CLOUDINARY_API_SECRET`
- `CLOUDINARY_CLOUD_NAME`
- `MONGO_URL`

## Files That Were Exposed

### cloudinary-credentials.txt
```
Cloud name: dtzaicj6s
API Key : 322679155254594
API Secret :vPdyGUmklsd6iXaj9UToZBXnM4s
```

### Commits Where They Appeared
- First commit: `87a2e9a` (Initial commit with clean history)
- Last commit: `29ea8fa` (before removal)

## Verification Checklist

- [ ] Gemini API key regenerated
- [ ] Cloudinary API secret regenerated  
- [ ] MongoDB password reset
- [ ] GitHub Secrets updated
- [ ] EC2 .env file updated
- [ ] Container restarted on EC2
- [ ] Tested API endpoints work with new credentials
- [ ] (Optional) Git history rewritten and force pushed

## Prevention Measures Added

1. Updated `.gitignore`:
   ```
   *.env.deploy
   cloudinary-credentials.txt
   mongodb_commands.txt
   *credentials*.txt
   ```

2. All sensitive files now excluded from git tracking

## Need Help?

If you need assistance with any of these steps, ask me and I can guide you through each one.

Commit message:

security: Remove exposed credentials from docs and strengthen .gitignore
- Removed all actual credential values from SECURITY_CLEANUP.md
- Enhanced .gitignore to prevent accidental credential exposure
- Added protection for .pem, secret, password, and apikey files
- Verified no sensitive files are tracked by git

SECURITY_CLEANUP.md, after:

# 🚨 URGENT SECURITY ACTIONS REQUIRED

## ✅ Completed Actions

1. **Removed from Git Tracking:**
   - `cloudinary-credentials.txt` - Contained Cloudinary API credentials
   - `mongodb_commands.txt` - Contained MongoDB connection strings
   - Updated `.gitignore` to prevent future commits

2. **Updated `.env` files:**
   - `frontend/.env` - Updated backend URL to correct AWS endpoint
   - `backend/.env.deploy` - NOT tracked by git (safe)

## ⚠️ CRITICAL: Actions You Must Take Immediately

### 1. Regenerate All API Keys

These credentials are **EXPOSED** in git history and must be regenerated:

#### Gemini API Key
- **Action:** Go to [Google AI Studio](https://aistudio.google.com/apikey)
  1. Verify your API key is active
  2. Ensure it's stored in GitHub Secret: `GEMINI_API_KEY`
  3. Ensure it's in `backend/.env` on EC2 server

#### Cloudinary Credentials
- **Action:** Verify credentials in [Cloudinary Console](https://console.cloudinary.com/)
- **Action:** Go to [Cloudinary Console](https://console.cloudinary.com/)
  1. Navigate to Settings → Security
  2. Regenerate API Secret
  3. Update GitHub Secrets: `CLOUDINARY_API_KEY`, `CLOUDINARY_API_SECRET`
  4. Update `backend/.env` on EC2 server

#### MongoDB Connection String
- **Action:** If your MongoDB Atlas connection string was in `mongodb_commands.txt`:
  1. Go to [MongoDB Atlas](https://cloud.mongodb.com/)
  2. Database Access → Reset password for `allualthaf42_db_user`
  3. Update GitHub Secret: `MONGO_URL`
  4. Update `backend/.env` on EC2 server

### 2. Remove Files from Git History (Optional but Recommended)

**Warning:** This will rewrite git history and require force push!

```bash
# Option 1: Using git filter-branch (built-in but slower)
cd c:/portfolio/portfolio
export FILTER_BRANCH_SQUELCH_WARNING=1
git filter-branch --force --index-filter \
  "git rm --cached --ignore-unmatch cloudinary-credentials.txt mongodb_commands.txt" \
  --prune-empty --tag-name-filter cat -- --all

# Force push to overwrite remote history
git push origin --force --all

# Option 2: Using BFG Repo-Cleaner (faster, recommended)
# Download BFG from: https://rtyley.github.io/bfg-repo-cleaner/
java -jar bfg.jar --delete-files cloudinary-credentials.txt
java -jar bfg.jar --delete-files mongodb_commands.txt
git reflog expire --expire=now --all
git gc --prune=now --aggressive
git push origin --force --all
```

### 3. Update Environment Variables on EC2

```bash
ssh -i "PORTFOLIO.pem" ec2-user@13.233.54.210

# Update .env file with new credentials
cd /home/ec2-user/portfolio/backend
nano .env

# Update these lines with NEW credentials:
# GEMINI_API_KEY=<new_key>
# CLOUDINARY_API_SECRET=<new_secret>
# MONGO_URL=<new_connection_string>

# Restart container
sudo docker stop portfolio-backend
sudo docker rm portfolio-backend
sudo docker run -d --name portfolio-backend \
  --restart unless-stopped \
  -p 8000:8000 \
  --env-file .env \
  portfolio-backend
```

### 4. Update GitHub Secrets

Go to: https://github.com/ALTHAFHUSSAINSYED/portfolio/settings/secrets/actions

Update these secrets with NEW values:
- `GEMINI_API_KEY`
- `CLOUDINARY_API_KEY`
- `CLOUDINARY_API_SECRET`
- `CLOUDINARY_CLOUD_NAME`
- `MONGO_URL`

## Files That Were Exposed

### Files Removed from Repository
- `cloudinary-credentials.txt` - ✅ Removed from git tracking
- `mongodb_commands.txt` - ✅ Removed from git tracking

### Commits Where They Appeared
- Existed in git history from commit `87a2e9a` onwards
- Removed from tracking in commit `79c9898`

## Verification Checklist

- [ ] Gemini API key regenerated
- [ ] Cloudinary API secret regenerated  
- [ ] MongoDB password reset
- [ ] GitHub Secrets updated
- [ ] EC2 .env file updated
- [ ] Container restarted on EC2
- [ ] Tested API endpoints work with new credentials
- [ ] (Optional) Git history rewritten and force pushed

## Prevention Measures Added

1. Updated `.gitignore`:
   ```
   *.env.deploy
   cloudinary-credentials.txt
   mongodb_commands.txt
   *credentials*.txt
   ```

2. All sensitive files now excluded from git tracking

## Need Help?

If you need assistance with any of these steps, ask me and I can guide you through each one.
